Edits to FAQs and Refs (#937)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/global-configs.md

id: "global-configs"
---

### About Global Configs

> Global runtime configurations (global configs) enable you to set default configuration values for all projects that you run locally on your computer. dbt supports several global configs.

Author: I got this info [here](https://deploy-preview-913--docs-getdbt-com.netlify.app/reference/profiles.yml#user-config). Do you have anything we can say to enhance this?

Reviewer: Maybe worth saying a bit about what the purpose of these configs is. Something like:
> Global configs control things like the visual output of logs, the manner in which dbt parses your project, and what to do when dbt finds a version mismatch or a failing model.
> 
> Global configs enable you to fine-tune _how_ dbt runs projects on your machine—whether your personal laptop, an orchestration tool running remotely, or (in some cases) dbt Cloud. They differ from [project configs](reference/dbt_project.yml) and [resource configs](reference/configs-and-properties), which tell dbt _what_ to run.
>
> These configs are "global" because they are available for all dbt commands, and because they apply across all projects run on the same machine.

> Global runtime configurations (global configs) enable you to set default configuration values for all projects that you run locally on your computer. dbt supports several global configs.

Author: ```suggestion
Global configs enable you to fine-tune how dbt runs projects on your machine—whether your personal laptop, an orchestration tool running remotely, or (in some cases) dbt Cloud. They differ from [project configs](reference/dbt_project.yml) and [resource configs](reference/configs-and-properties), which tell dbt _what_ to run.

Global configs control things like the visual output of logs, the manner in which dbt parses your project, and what to do when dbt finds a version mismatch or a failing model.

These configs are "global" because they are available for all dbt commands, and because they apply across all projects run on the same machine.
```

Starting in v1.0, you can set global configs in three places. When all three are set, command line flags take precedence, then environment variables, and last profile configs.

#### Command line flags

Command line (CLI) flags immediately follow `dbt` and precede your subcommand. When set, CLI flags override environment variables and profile configs. You can use `--this-config` CLI flag to turn on boolean configs, and a `--no-this-config` CLI flag to turn off boolean configs:

<File name='CLI flags'>

```text

> $ dbt --this-config

Author: @jtcohen6 is this example missing a subcommand? Or does "this-config"  represent an example config?

Reviewer: Good call, it should probably be something like:
```
dbt --<this-config> <subcommand>
```

> $ dbt --this-config

Author: ```suggestion
$ dbt --<this-config> <subcommand>
```

id: "global-configs"
---

### About Global Configs

Global configs enable you to fine-tune how dbt runs projects on your machine—whether your personal laptop, an orchestration tool running remotely, or (in some cases) dbt Cloud. They differ from [project configs](reference/dbt_project.yml) and [resource configs](reference/configs-and-properties), which tell dbt _what_ to run.

Global configs control things like the visual output of logs, the manner in which dbt parses your project, and what to do when dbt finds a version mismatch or a failing model.

These configs are "global" because they are available for all dbt commands, and because they apply across all projects run on the same machine.

Starting in v1.0, you can set global configs in three places. When all three are set, command line flags take precedence, then environment variables, and last profile configs.

#### Command line flags

> Command line (CLI) flags immediately follow `dbt` and precede your subcommand. When set, CLI flags override environment variables and profile configs. You can use `--this-config` CLI flag to turn on boolean configs, and a `--no-this-config` CLI flag to turn off boolean configs:

Author: ```suggestion
Command line (CLI) flags immediately follow `dbt` and precede your subcommand. When set, CLI flags override environment variables and profile configs. 

Non-boolean config structure: 

```text
$ --<THIS-CONFIG>=<SETTING> <SUBCOMMAND>
```

Non-boolean config example:

```text
$ dbt --printer-width=80 run
$ dbt --indirect-selection=eager test
```

To turn on boolean configs, you would use the `--<THIS-CONFIG>` CLI flag, and a `--no-<THIS-CONFIG>` CLI flag to turn off boolean configs, replacing <THIS-CONFIG> with the config you are enabling or disabling and <SUBCOMMAND>  with the command this config applies to.
```

<File name='CLI flags'>

```text
$ dbt --<this-config> <subcommand>

> $ dbt --no-this-config

Author: ```suggestion
$ dbt --no<THIS-CONFIG> <SUBCOMMAND>
```
